Update data-flow overview and status pages (#694)
returntocorp/semgrep-docs: docs/writing-rules/data-flow/data-flow-overview.md

---
slug: data-flow-overview
append_help_link: true
description: >-
  Semgrep can run data-flow analyses on your code, this is used for constant propagation and for taint tracking.
---

> # Data-flow analysis engine overview
> 
> Semgrep provides an intra-procedural data-flow analysis engine that opens various Semgrep capabilites. See the following data-flow analysis tools:

Author: ```suggestion
# Data-flow analysis engines overview

Semgrep provides intra-procedural data-flow analysis engines that open various Semgrep capabilities. See the following data-flow analysis tools:
```

You can expect both false positives and false negatives. You can remove false positives in different ways, for example, using [pattern-not](../../rule-syntax/#pattern-not) and [pattern-not-inside](../../rule-syntax/#pattern-not-inside). We definitely want to provide you with a way of eliminating false positives, so please [let file an issue if run into some](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new/choose). We are rather happy to trade false negatives for simplicity and fewer false positives, but you are welcome to open a feature request if Semgrep misses some important bug you would like to catch, and we will certainly consider it.

## Data-flow status

In principle, the data-flow analysis may run on any language [supported by Semgrep](/docs/supported-languages.md). However, compared to the regular Semgrep matching engine, the data-flow analysis engine may still not work as expected for some languages. Please, report any issue you encounter in our [Semgrep GitHub](https://github.com/returntocorp/semgrep/issues/new/choose).

> Internally, Semgrep translates the generic syntax tree into an analysis-friendly intermediate language, the _IL_, on which it runs _mostly_ language-agnostic analysis. However, this translation is not fully complete. Unsupported constructs are typically specific to one or a few languages.
> 
> Semgrep does not fail even if it finds an unsupported construct. The analysis simply continues while the construct is ignored. This may result in Semgrep not matching some code which should be matched (false negatives) or matching a code which should not be matched (false positives).

Author: @efortuna is this ok?

```suggestion
When Semgrep performs an analysis of the code, it creates an **abstract syntax tree** (AST) which is then translated into an analysis-friendly **intermediate language** (IL). Subsequently, Semgrep runs mostly language-agnostic analysis on IL. However, this translation is not fully complete. There can be features of some languages that Semgrep does not analyze correctly. In such a case, Semgrep does not fail even if it finds an unsupported construct. The analysis continues while the construct is ignored. This can result in Semgrep not matching some code that should be matched (false negatives) or matching a code that should not be matched (false positives).
```
